This lab experiment largely consists of gathering materials from the lecture notes, typing it in, making it work, and modifying it. You are, nevertheless, expected to work alone for this and every other lab experiment. The skills you develop in doing this experiment will be important for your future courses.

Step 1: Immediate and Two-Register instructions
Implement a single Verilog file to implement the functional blocks of the computer detailed in Lecture 4-I so that its memory can be pre-configured with a program consisting of immediate operand instructions as well as two-register operand instructions (and the HLT instruction). Use the debugging interface described in the lecture notes to correct any problems you find with your implementation.

You will need to contribute your own alu module and it will be slightly different than what you did for lab 12 because the flags are stored internally. It may take some debugging to get it to work correctly. You'll also need to contribute ssdec and encode16to4 modules. Make sure that all of the modules are your own, not ones created by another student and do not instantiate any "good_" modules described below.

Submit this Verilog file here by the due date published on the submission page.

Step 2: The Load Instruction
Implement, test, and ensure the correctness of the load (LDL) instruction as described in the notes for Lecture 4-I.

Submit this Verilog file here by the due date published on the submission page.

Step 3: The Store Instruction
Implement, test, and ensure the correctness of the store (STL) instruction as described in the notes for Lecture 4-I.

Submit this Verilog file here by the due date published on the submission page.

Step 4: Terminal Output
Refer to the extension in the notes for Lecture 4-I to map the UART transmitter to memory location 16'hFF00. Look at the ASCII encodings for the Latin alphabet and punctuation and write a program that will print your name to the simulator terminal output, followed by a carriage-return (hexadecimal code 8'h0d), followed by a linefeed (hexadecimal code 8'h0a). You may, optionally, write a second line that indicates your opinions of this lab experiment. We will build on it in future semesters.
